The following are high-medium-level requirements for the Sales Module. It is for a sales executive and an area sales manager. The versions will have some changes for a Regional Sales Manager and the National Head. We shall define these after we finish designs for a sales executive. 
Home Dashboard:
To have two cards:
Task Prioritisation (C1 → C2 and C3 —> C7): The sales team’s targets for each day are set clearly. They need to move leads in C1 to C2 in the first half and C3 → C7 in the second half. 
Alerts: The salespeople get alerts of existing orders for which their interventions are required:
Payment collections
Resolving deviations
Product Issues
T&C Acceptance
Delay Management (informing customers)
Feedback & Customer Satisfaction after installation - explain the after-sales service to every customer. 

Feature: Add New Lead: Here we need to also have a feature to add new Lead. It will have the following details:
Customer details
Name, Number, Email,
Site Details
Project Name
Site Geo Location
Site Address (including pin code)
Lead Type <Text Field> (Inputs ex: 3 BHK/G+3)
Reference (if any)
Orders Tab:
To capture four stages and each stage should have the following tags



Order Confirmed

(only comes to this stage when token or 50% advance is collected)
Advance (50%) collected
Advance Pending
T&C Accepted
T&C Pending
Final Survey: In Progress
Final Survey: Completed
Final Survey: Deviations
Under Production

(only orders that have 50% of advance payment collected and the final survey is completed 
On-time
delayed

*note: need to figure out and think of how multiple work orders (under the same order) are shown. 
Delivered 
Installation: in progress/date scheduled/paused/postponed
Paused: site conditions not suitable,  product issues
Postponed: when the paused issue is resolved and a solution is arrived to
Installed
Payment pending
Closed (fade out)


Order Full View Template: 
Details inputted while creating lead (Customer and Project Details)
Area in Sft (extract from the latest quotation)*
Total Order Value ( (extract from the latest quotation)*
Order Status* (and history - similar to Delhivery tracking details? If at one of the stages an issue has been reported, the sales executive should be able to expand and see what it is. For example, the order is delivered but there are product issues, they should have visibility on what those issues are). The following are different and can be linked to the table above. 
Quotations: (final and versions/ongoing versions)
Payments Collected (ex - 1,20,000/2,40,000, a tracker and history)
Dates (if order is under production, expected date of completion and delivery. If delivered, date delivered on an installation date schedule. If installed, when it was installed. Basically should have date of the next successive action in the workflow)

Note: the order should have different states. For ex, if final survey is done and successful, the screen should show the next action. If 50% payment isn’t made, it should nudge the sales executive to collect it, to push order to production. Or once quotation is finalised, it should allow sales executives to request Final Survey. The sales executive should have a feature to request revisions. 

Targets:
Sales executives should be able to track their performance metrics. To start off, let’s have the following:
Monthly Target:
Area wise (in sft)
Value (in INR)
Rate (in INR)

Receipts Pending
Total payments to be received from confirmed orders. 

Orders Closed:
Area and Total Order Value of closed orders (i.e. orders installed and warranties issued)





Deals Page:
The view will change as per role. The following table defines it:

Role
View
Features
Sales Head
Able to view all leads
Deal ID (to be pulled from Eva Quotation)
Customer Name/Project Name
Area
Deal Value
Contact
Created
Next Steps
Due Date
Owner of the lead (Name and Designation)
Regional Sales Manager
Able to view leads assigned to him + ASMs under him + Sales Executives under the ASM
All of the above 
Area Sales Manager
Able to view leads assigned to him + the sales executives under him
All of the above 
Sales Executive
Only able to view leads assigned to him
All of the above minus (owner of the lead)


We need to add the following features also in the deals page: 
Search Tab
The user should be able to change the stage of the deal there itself instead of clicking on “advance deal stage”
The red alert icon on project name should come up whenever the user gets a task to do on the project

The three dots button at the end of the table should contain the following item basis the stage in which the deal is:



Stage
Items
Order Confirmed
Final Quotation
Latest Payments (open a pop-up that shows the payment chain/history along with total and pending)
Order Delivered
Above along with:
Proof of Delivery Document
Delivery Challan
Invoice
Installation Done
Above along with:
H”;andover Form (QC done after installation)
Warranty Card (should be shareable to the client on WA/Email if needed)
Before Order is Confirmed
Only able to see:
Latest Quotation


Changes:
In the Create New Deal flow, please make the following changes:
Email is not mandatory
Project Name is not mandatory
Reference - should be a dropdown with the following options:
Architect
Interior Designer
Contractor
Freelancer
Direct
Others
If it is one of the first four, then the flow should be the following:
Select Architect from dropdown list → open list of architects → search for architect and tag it to them. 
If an architect isn’t there, they should be able to create an architects there. 
We call the above roles as influencers. We shall have a database of these, and we should be able to see the various orders/leads from a single architect/interior designer/contractor/freelancer

















Detailed Order View Page:



In the detailed order view page the following are a list of features that have to enabled during each of the stage, and how their typical flows look like:


Stage
Feature
Flow
LEAD
Schedule Site Visit
Call Customer → Note Date and Timing → Update on Dashboard → Get notification/reminder the previous day
Request Quotation
Request Quotation → Upload Measurements → Mention any special comments (if needed) → Request Quote
View/Download/Share Quote
When quote is ready:

Receive notification → View Quote → If all good, share with customer (WA, Email)

If not good → Add comments → Request quotation revision

At this stage, the  sales user should review quotations, confirm they have been reviewed, and only then can get the option to share with customers. 
Revise Quotation
Request Revision → Add Specific Changes as comments → Request revision
Mark Finalsed Quote
Mark a quote as a finalised quote. 

This should trigger and allow payment collection 
Collect Payment
Collect Payment → Select against which quotation → Display total quotation value → Enter Amount to collect → Select Payment type → generate link and share link to customer WA/Email/SMS

If payment done through UPI/Bank Transfer or Cheque:

Record Payment → Upload Payment Proof → Select against which quotation → Enter the amount → Enter payment type → Request accounts to confirm
Upload Site Photos or Documents
Upload Documents/Images → Write description → Upload
ORDER
Request for Final Survey
Request for final survey → Mark the quotation against which order is done (if not done before) → Send


View Survey Details
Ability to see the following details:
- See Status:
Pending
Scheduled along with Date
Under Progress
Delayed (reason)
On Hold (reason)
Completed, Under Final Review
Completed, Deviations Detected
Completed, Revised and Final Quote Issued
Completed, Moved to Production


- Date and Time of Survey

- Notes (if any)


Request Quote (Final/Deviation)
Once the survey is done, installation head approves the existing survey:

Request quotation with recorded measurements (measurements should be automatically attached from survey module)

Once quote is ready → receive notification → mark as verified/reviewed → share with customer (WA/Email)

Once survey is done, installation head mentions deviations:

Discuss with customer and get approval → request for revised quotation → automatic attachment of recorded measurements → add notes of changes to be made → request quotation

Once quote is ready → receive notification → mark as verified/reviewed → share with customer (WA/Email)

Once a customer approves, mark the quote as final. 


Collect Payment (50%)
Collect 50% advance payment. 

Request payment → to automatically fill the amount (50% of order value minus token collected) → generate payment link → share with customer

If payment done through UPI, Bank Transfer or Cheque:

Record Payment → Enter Amount → System to verify if the amount is 50% minus token value → Upload payment proof → Request account approval 


Move to Production
If payment is successful (payment link call back/accounts approval), order to automatically move to Production 
Production haritd09@gmail.com
View Expected Delivery Date
Expected Date of Delivery (at the order level or in the card) 
Status: On time / Delayed
If delayed, view reason
Expected  New Date of Delivery and Original Delivery Date (if delay is happening) 
Once Production is complete, view the QC checklist (done by the onsite coordinator)


Delivery & Installation haritd09@gmail.com
View Installation Details
Delivery Scheduled Date, and Vehicle Number
Delivery Status: Scheduled, Under Progress, Completed

Date of Installation & Name of person in charge
Status
Pending
Scheduled along with Date
Under Progress
Delayed (reason)
On Hold (reason)
Completed, QC and Handover Done

If installation done, view Handover Form (QC checklist signed by customer)









New Additions:

Dashboard View for Sales Coordinator:
We need to create a new version for the new role of Sales Coordinator. This person will have the following functionalities 
(*we can pick this up at the end)

Since we don’t have a CRM integration, they shall enter all the CRM leads into our system and assign it to the various sales execs, ASM, RSM and Sales Heads.
They should be able to provide daily summaries of the following:

Sales Head should get an Analytics Dashboard: 
The analytics dashboard should contain the following items:



Customer Maturity Stages 
Code
Status
Description
Required Actions
Source
CF
Future Pipeline
High intent, future requirement
- Create timed follow-up  - Document timeline
- Assign to sales executive
  - Add to nurture sequence  - Schedule future contact
Direct from Pre-Sales High Intent Future Lead
C0
Active Pipeline
Current month requirement
- Assign to area executive  
1. Direct from Pre-Sales High Intent Current Lead  2. CF lead when timeline becomes current

Note: Here the classification to CF or C1 is done by the pre-sales team. Once this is done, the sales team shall handle it. 





 Customer Maturity Progression (Sales Team)
Code
Status
Description
Required Actions
C1
Initial Quote
Quote sent post initial site visit and measurement collection

Site visit coordination
Measurement Collection
Quote  generation, re
Negotiation tracking
C2
              Token Received
Order confirmed with token
Payment Collection
Payment documentation 
Schedule final survey  
C3
Final Survey and Check
Technical survey and cross check with initial quote completed

Assign Surveyor
Check Site Readiness
Site Survey Schedule (Date & Time)
Post survey, Compare with Quote and Measurement verification
Technical assessment  
Production feasibility check
If major  deviations, send changes to the sales team. Sales Team to inform customer and send revisions to quotations team
If no major deviations, send to quotations team to generate final quote with updated measurements
C3A
Quote Revision
Deviation (major and minor)  with initial survey. Quote to undergo revision
- Quote generation (with updated requirements)
- Verify with Survey Team
 - Update customer and confirm order
C4
Final Quote
Final quote sent 
- Quote generation and sending
C5
Order Confirmed
50% payment received
- 50% Payment collection 
- Production initiation  


C6
In Production
Order under production


C7
Ready for Dispatch
Production completed, Schedule Delivery



C7A
Second Payment
Material cost minus installation received



C8
Delivered
Work Order delivered


C9
Under Installation
Work order under installation
-
C10
Installation Completed




C11
Final Payment
Remaining payment collected


C12
Completed
Project closed
-
CL
Lost
Customer is lost







